yes	FORMNO. 16A under section 203 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 for tax deducted at source Name and •ddr• Of the PAN Of crr (TDS) TAN Of the deductor Summary of payment Nature Of payment" Last updated on N •me and address Of the deduetee PAN Of the deducte Year Deductee Reference No. Date of credit providd by the (if (dd/mm'yyyy) Summary of tax deducted at source in of Deduetee L DETAILS OF TAX DEDUCTED AND DEPOSITED m THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNT THROUGH BOOK ADJUSTMENT Book Identification Number (BIN' Tax In respect of ctee Total DDO Form NO. No. UG Statu of Date Of with No. 24G voucher (dd/mm/yyyy) n. DETAILS OF TAX DEDUcrED AND DEPOSITED THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNT THROUGH CHALIAN t. t" dep«lted with to ete) Tax d.osited in respect of the deduetee (RSJ BSR code of the Bank Number (CIN) Date on "Mch tax d.osited Challan Serial Number (dd.'mm,'yyyy) s of matching OLTAs• I, of null in the apnity of (duignti") d. hueby that of R'. IRS. On "d b" been deposited t. the credit or the Central Government. certify that the given true. complete and .nd is bawd on the 'f TDS TDS deposited "d 0th" Page I of 2 
yes	FORM NO. 16B C utifiate uudu 203 of the lu L Updated On: Nm u d of the (Trmfue) P AN of the Ded«tor PAN of the D CT of P .id / Credited Nm of the Deduct& Date of / Credit (ddimmsyyy) Tobi (Rs.) 1. DETAILS OF TAX DEDUCTED DEPOSITED RESPECT TO THE DEDUCTEE T + +Edu. Ammt (Rs_) D. te which Dep%ited BSR code of the n. DETAIL s OF TAX DEPOSITED IN THE CENTRAL coiER>AIENT ACCOUNT THROUGH CHAI-IAN +Edu. * Fæ + Intæt) Ammt (Rs_) D. te which Dep%ited BSR code of the S uial S uial of working of do cutify fret cutify the infimztion above is tc of IDS TDS of ded=hon 
no	FORM NO. 12B [See rule 26 A] Form for furnishing details of income under section 192(2) for the year ending 31st March, Name and address of the employee P ermanent Account No _ Residential status paid to ho-mg TAV aiiottsd Period Total Total ef of saws ysqai7&d to to Of] with 24 Total p.quisitc (givs detail' in *dwrsd in to wkick soct (Giu "tail') Total duymg (e-zioæ 203) ooooooooooo Signature of the employee With effect from I -4-1991, section SOC has been replaced by section 88. Verified today, the Plac e Printed from www.taxmann.com Verrication do hereby declare that what is stated above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief day of Signature of the employee 
no	FORM NO. 12BA [See Statement showing particulars of perquisites, other fringe benefits or amenities and profits in lieu of salary with value thereof Name and address of employer TDS Assessment Range of the employer Name, designation and PAN of employee Is the employee a director or a person With substantial interest m the company (where the employer is a company) Income under the head "Salaries" of the employee 'mount, any, reco veredfrom the employee Amount of perquis ite chargeable to Col. (3) - Col (4) (RSJ (5) 10. 12. 13. 14. 15. (offer than from perquisites) F manctal year Valuation of Perquisites Nature ofperquisites (see rule 3) (2) Accommodation Cars:Other automo uve Sweeper: gardener, watchman per sonal attendant Gas: electricity, water Interest free or concessional loans Holiday expenses Free or concessional travel Free m eals Free education Gifts, vouchers, etc. Credit card expenses Club expenses Use of movable assets by employees Transfer of assets to employees Value of any other benefitiamenlty,' s ervtcefprivile ge Stock options (non-qualified options) Other benefits or amenities Total value of perquisites Value of perquis ite as per rules (RSJ or Total value of profits m lieu of salary as per section 17(3) (9) Details of tax, (a) Tax deducted from salary of the emplo yee under Printed from ww•w.taxmann.com 
no	The Assessmg Officer, FORM NO. 13 [See rules 28 and 3 7G] Application by a person for a certificate under sections 197 and/or 206C(9) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, for no *deductionJcoIIection of tax or *deduction/ collection of tax at a lower rate do, hereby, request that a certificate may be issued to the person responslble for paying to me the Incomes'sum by way of salary interest on securities.'interest other than "interest on commissionicommtssion (not bemg insurance commlsston) or brokerage,'commtssion, etc., on the sale of lottery tickets:fees for professional or technical services:any sum by way of payment to contractors and in respect of unlts.'sum by way of payment of compensation on acquisition of Immovable propeny (strike out whlchever is not applicable) authorising him not to deduct Income-tax:to deduct income-tax at the rate of_per cent at the time of payment to me of such incomeisum. The particulars of my Income and other details are as per para 2. do, hereby, request that a certificate may be issued to the seller: bemg the person responsible for collecting the tax from me in respect ofthe amount payable by me as the buyer of [specify the nature of goods referred to in the Table in sub-section (I) of section or licensee of specify the nature of contract or licence or lease referred to m the Table m sub-section (I C) of section 206C] (Strike out whlchever is not applicable) authorizing him to collect income-tax at due rate of —per cent at the time of debit of such amount to my account or receipt thereof from me: as the case may be. The particulars of my income and other details are as per para 2. 2. The particulars of my income and other details are as under : Status (State whether mdlvidual, Hindu undivided family, firm, body of individuals, Company , etc.) (it) Residential status (Whether resident resident but not ordinarily resident/non- resident) (iii.) Permanent Account No _ (PAN) (tv_) Tax Deduction and Collection Account No. (TAN) (v) Details of returns/statements which have become due but have not been filed Sec tion under w hich return/statement has Assessment year/ quarter Due date for become due (2) Section 139 Section 200 Section 206C filing (3) Reason for not filing (vi) Details ofreturned income: assessed income for the last three assessment years: Printed 
no	In come-Tax Department FORM NO. 15CA (See rule 378B) Information to be furnished under sub-section (6) of Section 195 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 relating to remittance of payments to a non-resident or to a foreign company Nm of 19: of IT Act, 1961) Ro a d'Stret•Pmt INFONATION Principal of of State (STD wde)-Pbm Am code Nm of of R. uge INFONATION Ack. No - PAN of TAN of "He I if Write 2 if firm, md write 3 In of company-lf d.•tic, ud 0th u thu d.tie, PAN of recipient of to which mde : "He I if write 2 if firm, md mite 3 if othu•s 
no	FORM NO. ISCB (See rule 37BB) Certificate of an accountant* I/We have examined the agreement (wherever applicable) between and requiring the (remitters) (beneficiary) above remittance as well as the relevant documents and books of account required for ascertaining the nature of remittance and for determining the rate of deduction of tax at source as per provisions of sub-section (6) of section 195. We hereby certifr the following: A Name and address of the beneficiary of the remittance Country: In foreign currency Branch of the bank In foreign currency As per Income-tax Act (k) In foreign currency (Tick) (Tick) Clause of DTAA As per DTAA (k) (Tick) (Tick) C] (Tick) Currency: In Indian Rs. In Indian Rs. As per (06) In Indian Rs. 10. II. 12. 13. Country to which remittance is made Amount of remittance Name of the bank BSR Code of the bank branch (7 digit) Proposed date of remittance Amount of TDS Rate of TDS Actual amount of remittance after TDS Date of deduction of tax at source (DD/MM,'VWY) Nature of remittance as per agreement/ document In case the remittance is net of taxes, whether tax payable has been grossed up? If so computation thereof may be indicated. If the remittance is for royalties, fee for technical services, interest, dividend, etc, please indicate:- (a) The clause of the relevant DTAA under which the remittance is covered along with reasons (b) Rate of TDS required to be deducted in terms of such clause of the applicable DTAA (c) In case TDS is made at a lower rate than the rate prescribed under DTAA, reasons thereof In case remittance is for supply of articles or things (eg. plant, machinery, equipment etc.), please indicate, (a) "hether the recipient of remittance has any permanent establishment (PE) in India through which the beneficiary of the remittance is directly or indirectly carrying on such activity of supply of articles or things? (b) "hether such remittance is attributable to or connected with such permanent establishment (c) If the reply to Item no. (b) above is yes, the amount of income comprised in such remittance which is liable to tax. (d) If not, the reasons in brief thereof. 
no	FORM NO. ISD [See rule 29B] Application by a person other than a banking company for a certificate under section 195(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, for receipt of sums other than interest and dividends without deduction of tax The Assessing Officer, , being the princtpal officer of [name of the person, firm or company entitled to recelve sums offer than Interest and dividends] do hereby declare : (a) that I/ [name of the firm, company, etc.] am,'is a non-resident assessee (not being a banking company) carrying on busmess\profession in Indla through a branch(es) by name(s) havmg office(s) at (b) that my head officeithe head omce of [name of the place and country] [name of the company, etc.] is situated at (c) that I,' [name of the firm: company, etc.] am'is entitled to receive income (other than dividends and interest) chargeable under the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961, during the financial (d) that L' [name of the firm, company: etc.] all the conditions laid down in rule 29B ofthe Income-tax Rules, 1962. I, therefore: request that a certificate may be issued authorismg me,' [name of the firm, company, etc.] to receive income other than interest or dlvidends without deduction of tax under sub- section (I) of section 195 of the Income-tax Act: 1961 , during the financial year I hereby declare that what is stated in tllis appllcation is correct Signature Printed from ww•w.taxmann.com 
no	FORM NO. ISD [See rule 29B] Application by a person other than a banking company for a certificate under section 195(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, for receipt of sums other than interest and dividends without deduction of tax The Assessing Officer, , being the princtpal officer of [name of the person, firm or company entitled to recelve sums offer than Interest and dividends] do hereby declare : (a) that I/ [name of the firm, company, etc.] am,'is a non-resident assessee (not being a banking company) carrying on busmess\profession in Indla through a branch(es) by name(s) havmg office(s) at (b) that my head officeithe head omce of [name of the place and country] [name of the company, etc.] is situated at (c) that I,' [name of the firm: company, etc.] am'is entitled to receive income (other than dividends and interest) chargeable under the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961, during the financial (d) that L' [name of the firm, company: etc.] all the conditions laid down in rule 29B ofthe Income-tax Rules, 1962. I, therefore: request that a certificate may be issued authorismg me,' [name of the firm, company, etc.] to receive income other than interest or dlvidends without deduction of tax under sub- section (I) of section 195 of the Income-tax Act: 1961 , during the financial year I hereby declare that what is stated in tllis appllcation is correct Signature Printed from ww•w.taxmann.com 
no	FOR-M NO. ISH [See rule 29C(1A)] Declaration under sub-section (IC) of section 197A of the Income-tax Act, 1961, to be made by an individual who is of the age of sixty-five years or more claiming certain receipts without deduction of tax *sonl daughter,' wife of @ do I _ *that the shareslsecunties/sums, particulars of which are given in the Schedule below, stand in my name and are beneficially owned by me, and die dividend:interest in respect of such *secuntieslsums andior mcome in respect of units is\are not includible in the total mcome of any other person under sections 60 to 64 of the Act, 1961 ; *that the particulars of my account under the National Savings Scheme and the amount of withdrawal are as per the Schedule below: details of præt u-zupatim that I am ofthe age of Aæt SCHEDULE Date of of years and am entitled to a deduction from the amount of income-tax on my total income referred to in section SSB; . that the tax on my estimated total income, mcluding referred to in the Schedule below computed in accordance with the provisions ofthe Income-tax Act, 1961, for the previous year endmg on relevant to the assessment year will be nil; that I have not been nsesed to income-tax at any time in the past but I fall within the jurisdiction ofthe Chief Commissioner of Income-tax that I 'A'as last assessed to income-tax for the assessment year or Commissioner of Income-tax by the Assessing Officer CireWWud the P allotted to 6. that I not resident m India within the meaning of sechon 6 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 ; Verification do hereby declare that to the best of my hlowledge and belief what is stated above IS correct: complete and is truly stated. V erified today, die day of Sigmtw•s Source: wnw_taxguruin 
yes	FORM NO. 16 PART A under 203 of the Income—tax Act. for at source 00 Name and addres of Oe Employer PAN Of CIT (TDS) TAN •f the Last upd•td on Name and address of the Employee Employee Reference No. PAN of E*yee by the Puiod with the Employe• Summary Of amount dducted •t rwpeCt Of the 1. DETAILS OF TAX DEDUCTED AND DEPOSITED IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNT THROUGH BOOK ADJUSTMENT to details of tu d.Aucted ud with to Tax Of R«eipt Of No. UG Book Identification Number (BIN' Date of voucher DDO no. s of matching wiO Form no. 24G Total n. DETAILS OF TAX DEDUCTED AND DEPOSITED IN THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNT THROUGH CHALIAN (The to details of tu d.Aucted ud with to Tax Deposited repect of Oe BSR code Number (CIN) Date on which Tax Challan Serial (dd.'mm,'yyyy) Status of matching OLTAs• I, of null in the apnity of (duignti") d. hueby that of Rs. IRS. On or R'. IRS. b" been deposited t. the credit or the Central Government. certify that the given true. complete and .nd is bawd the 'f TDS TDS deposited "d 0th" Page I of 2 
no	FORM NO. 24Q (See section 192 and rule 3 IA) Quarterly statement of deduction of tax under sub-section (3) of section 200 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 in respect of salary (b) (c) (d) for the quarter ended June/September/December/March (tick whichever applicable) Tax Deduction Account No. Permanent Account No Financial year Assessment year Has any statement been filed earlier for this quarter (Yes/No) If answer to (e) is 'Yes: then Provisional Receipt No. of original statement 2. Particulars of the deductor (employer) (a) (c) (d) Name Type of deductorl Branch/Division (if any) Address Flat No. Name of the premises/building PrintedFrom Tarmann's Income Rules on CD (year) Page I ofg 
no	Form No. 260 (See sections 193, 194, 194A, 1948B, 1940, 1940, 194EE, 194F, 194G, 194H, 1941, 194J, 194LAandru1e31A) Quarterly statementot cEductionot tax uncer sub -section (3) ot section 200 ot the Income tax Act, 1961 in respectot payments other than Salary for the quarter en&d June / September / DecernEEr March (tck which ever appicable)_._ _ (year) (a) (b) (c) Tax Deductnn Account No Permanent Account No. Financial year (d) (e) Assessment year Has any statement been tiled earlier tor this quarter (Yes I no) It answer to (e) is 'Yes', then Provisional Receipt no. ot original statement 2 3 Particulars of the cÉductor (a) (c) (d) Name Type of &ductor Branch division (It any) Address Flat NC Name ot the premises building Road I street lane Area / location Town / City District State Pin cocE Telephone No. E-mail Particulars of the person responsible tor &duction of tax (a) Name (b) Address Flat NC Name ot the premises building Road I street lane Area / location Town / Ci District State Pin cocE Tele hone No. E-mail 
no	Form No. 27A Form for tumishing information with the statement of cEducton / collection ot tax at source ( tick whichever applicable ) filed on computer media tor the period (a) (b) (c) Tax Deduct6n Account No Perm anent Account No. Form No. 2 4 5 6 Particulars of the cÉductor / collector (a) Name b T peot & ductor• c Branch I division It an Address Flat No. Name of the remises buildin Road street lane Area location Town CY / District State Pin cocÉ Tele hore No. E-m ail Control totals (From _ _ I Tax cEducted Amount paid / to / (d) Financial Year ( e ) Assessment year (t ) Prevous receipt number (In case etum,' statetrent has been med earlier) 3 Name ot the etsonres nsible tor cÉductlon I collection of tax a Name b Address Flat No. Name of the emises / buildin Road street lane Area / location Town / Ci District State Pin cocE Tele hone No. E-mail Tax & posited NC ot cEductee pany recor& Total Total Number ot Annexures enclosed Other Information Place : / collect6n (Total challan amount) VERIFICATION hereby certify that all the particulars furnished above are correct and complete. Signature ot person responsible for &ducting colecting tax at source Name and &signation of person responsible for &ducting collecting tax at source • Mention type ot &ductor - Government or Others # dd/m m/yy date/month,year 
no	FORM NO. 27C [See rule Declaration under sub-section (IA) of section 206C of the Income-tax Act, 1961 to be made by a for obtaining goods without collection of tax EWe* resident of PART 1 * son'daughter/wife do hereby declare— of 1 _ that *my/our present occupation is 2. that [nature of the goods referred to in the Table in sub-section (I) of *chon 206Cl is to be utilised for the purpose of *manumcturmg/processmg/producing articles or thmgs and not for trading purposes; 3. that *I anl/we are assessed to income-tax by the Assessing Officer Circle,Ward and die permanent account number allotted to me is OR that *I was/we were last assessed to income-tax for the assessment year by the Assessing Officer and the permanent account number allotted to me is OR Circle"Ward that *I/we have not been assessed to income-tax at any time in the past but I fall v.'ifllin the jurisdiction of the Chief Commissioner or Commissioner of Income-tax *LWe * *Signature of the declarant Verficafion do hereby declare that to the best of *my our knowledge and belief what is stated above is correct, complete and is üuly stated. Verified today: the Place : Notes: day of Signature of the declarant 1 _ @Give complete postal address. 2. The declaration should be ftmished in duplicate. 3 _ *Delete whichever is not applicable. 4. **lndicate die capacity in which the declaration is fiamished on behalf of a Hmdu undivided family: association of persons: firm etc. 5. Before signing the verification: die declarant should satisfy himself diat due information furnished m the declaration is tme, correct and complete in all respects. Any person making a false statement in the declaration shall be liable to prosecution under section 277 of the Income-tax Act: 1961, and on conviction be punishable— (t) in a case where tax sought to be evaded exceeds one lakh rupees: with rigorous imprisonment which shall not be less dian SIX mondls but which may extend to seven years and widi fine; (to in any onuer case, with rigorous imprisonment which shall not be less nuan three Hinted from www_taxmann.com 
no	PAN of the Collector CIT (TDS) Address.... Amount received/debited FOR-M NO. 27D [See rule 37D] Certificate under section 206C of the Income-tax Act, 1961 for Tax collected at source Pin Code.... Name and address of the Collector Name and address of the Collectee TAN of the Collector Assessment year Summa of rec Nature of receipt Summa of tax collected at source PAN of the Collectee Period From To Quarter Receipt Number of original quarterly statements of TCS Amount of tax collected in respect of under proviso to sub-section (3) the collectee of section 206C Date of receipt/debit Amount of tax deposited/remitted in respect of the collectee 1. DETAILS OF TAX COLLECTED AND DEPOSITED IN THE CENTRXL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNT THROUGH BOOK ENTRY (The Collector to provide payment wise details of tax collected and deposited with respect to the S. No. Tax Deposited in respect of the collectee collectee Book identification number (BIN) BAMS number given by DDO sequence PAO/CDDO/TO umber in the Date on which tax deposited (dd/mm/»yy) Book Adjustment Mini Statement Total II.DETAILS OF TAX COLLECTED AND DEPOSITED IN THE CENTRXL GOVERNMELVT ACCOUM THROUGH C}ALLXN (The Collector to provide payment wise details of tax collected and deposited with respect to the S. No. Tax Deposited in respect of the collectee collectee Challan identification number (CIN) BSR Code of the Bank Date on which tax deposited Branch Total Challan Serial Number 
no	Form No. 27EQ ( See section 2060 and rule 3 IAA ) "Quarterly statement ot Tax collection at Source uncer section 206C ot Income tax Act, 1961 "for the quarter en&d June I September December I March (ttk which ever apptable) _.(year)• (a) (b) (c) TAN PAN Financial year (d) (e) Assessment year Has any statement been tiled earlier tor this quarter (Yes I no) It answer to (e) 'Yes', then Provisional Receipt no. ot original statement 2 3 Particulars of the collector (a) (b) (c) Name Branch division (It any) Address Flat No. Name ot the premises / building Road street lane Area / location Town City District State Pin cocE Telephone No. E-mail Partiulars of the person responsible tor collection ot tax (a) Name (b) Address Flat No. Name ot the premises / building Road street lane Area / location Town C' District State Pin cocE Tele hone No. E-mail 
no	Form No. 27Q [See sections 194E, 195, 196A•, 196B, 196C,196D and nJ1e 31A and 37A] Quarterly statement of deduction of tax under sub-section (3) of section 200 of l. T. Act, 1961 in respect of payments other than Salary made to non-residents for the quarter ended June / September / December / March (tick which ever appicable) (year) (a) (b) (c) Tax Deduction and Collection Acx:ount No. (TAN) Permanent Account No. (PAN) Financial year ( d ) Assessment year ( e ) Has any statement been filed earlier for this quarter (Yes / no) ( f ) If answer to (e) is 'Yes', then Provisional Receipt no. of origülal staternent 2 3 Particulars of the deductor (a) Name (b) Type of deductor (c) Branch I division (if any) (d) Address Flat No. Name of the premises / building Road / street I lane Area / location Town I City I District Pin code Telephone No. E-mail Particulars of the person responsible for deduction of tax (a) Name (b) Address Flat No. Name of the premises / building Road I street I lane Area / location T0M/Ci / District State Pin code Tele ne No. E-mail *Relevant in of Tax Deduction at source before 14.2003. 
no	FORM NO. 49B [See sections 203A and rule 114A] Form of application for allotment of tax deduction and collection account number under section 203A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 To The Assessmg Officer (TDS/TCS) Assessing Officer Code (TDSnCS) Area Code AO Type Range Code AO Number Whereas *Liwe *aware liable to tax or deduct tax and collect tax in accordance with Chapter XVII under the heading - Deduction at source' or 'BB -Collection source' ofthe Income-tax Act, 1961; And whereas no *tax deduction account number'tax collection account number or tax deduction account number and tax collection account number he been allotted to *melus; *Uwe give below the necessaly particulars: [Please refer to the instructions before filling up the form] I. Name (Fill only one ofthe columns 'a' to 'h' whichever is applicable.) a. Central i State Govemment Tick the appropnate entry Central G ovemment State Govemment Name of Office Name of Organization Name of Department Name of Ministry Designation of person responsible for making payment' collectiog tax b. Statutory/autonomous bodies T Ick the appropnate entry Statutory B ody Hinted from www_ taxmann.com Local Authority (Central Govemment) Local Authority (State Government) Autonomous B ody 
no	Important : Please see notes overleaf before filling up the Challan CHALLAN NO./ ITNS T.D.S./TCS TAX CHALLAN Tax Applicable(Tick One) * TAX DEDUCTED/COLLECTED AT SOURCE FROM (0020) Company (0021) Non-Company Deductees Deductees Single Copy (to be sent to the ZAO) Assessment Year Tax Deduction Account Full Name Complete Address with City & State Type of Payment (Tick one) TDS/Tcs Payable by Taxpayer Code• (Please see overleaf) (2001 TDS/TCS Regular Assessment (Raised by I. T. Deptt.) (400) DETAILS OF PAYMENTS Income Tax Fee under sec. 234E Amount (in Rs_ Only) Surcharge Education Cess Interest Penaltv Total Total (in words) CRORES LACS THous4Nos PEId in &sh/Debit to A/c No. Date: TAN (Name of the Sank and Branch) Signature of person making payment Rs. Taxpayers Counterfoil (To be filled by the taxpayer) FOR USE IN RECEIVING BANK Debit to A/c / Cheque credited on SPACE FOR BANK SEAL SPACE FOR BANK SEAL Received From Cuh/Debit to A/c / Rs_ (in words) drawn on (Name) Far Rs (Name ofthe Bank and Branch) Companv/Non-Company Deductees of at Collected At (Strike out whichever is not applicable) For the Assessment Year rce(Tcs1 		
